.TH "pure-pw" "8" "1.0.22" "Pure-FTPd team" "Pure-FTPd"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
pure\-pw \- Manage virtual users files for Pure\-FTPd
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
pure\-pw useradd login [\-f passwd_file] [\-F puredb_file] \-u uid [\-g gid]
                \-D/\-d home_directory [\-c gecos]
                [\-t download_bandwidth] [\-T upload_bandwidth]
                [\-n max number_of_files] [\-N max_Mbytes]
                [\-q upload_ratio] [\-Q download_ratio]
                [\-r <allow client host>/<mask>[,<ip>/<mask>]...] [\-R <deny client host>/<mask>[,<ip>/<mask>]...]
                [\-i <allow local host>/<mask>[,<ip>/<mask>]...] [\-I <deny local host>/<mask>[,<ip>/<mask>]...]
                [\-y <max number of concurrent sessions>]
                [\-z <hhmm>\-<hhmm>] [\-m]
.br 
pure\-pw usermod login [\-f passwd_file] [\-F puredb_file] [\-u uid] [\-g gid]
                \-D/\-d home_directory \-[c gecos]
                [\-t download_bandwidth] [\-T upload_bandwidth]
                [\-n max_number_of_files] [\-N max_Mbytes]
                [\-q upload_ratio] [\-Q download_ratio]
                [\-r <allow client host>/<mask>[,<ip>/<mask>]...] [\-R <deny client host>/<mask>[,<ip>/<mask>]...]
                [\-i <allow local host>/<mask>[,<ip>/<mask>]...] [\-I <deny local host>/<mask>[,<ip>/<mask>]...]
                [\-y <max number of concurrent sessions>]
                [\-z <hhmm>\-<hhmm>] [\-m]
.br 
pure\-pw userdel login [\-f passwd_file] [\-F puredb_file] [\-m]
.br 
pure\-pw passwd  login [\-f passwd_file] [\-F puredb_file] [\-m]
.br 
pure\-pw show    login [\-f passwd_file] [\-m]
.br 
pure\-pw mkdb    [<puredb_database_file> [\-f passwd_file]] [\-F puredb_file] 
.br 
pure\-pw list    [\-f passwd_file]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
Virtual users is a simple mechanism to store a list of users, with their
password, name, uid, directory, etc. It's just like /etc/passwd. But it's
not /etc/passwd. It's a different file, only for FTP.
.br 
It means that you can easily create FTP\-only accounts without messing your
system accounts.
.br 
Additionnaly, virtual users files can store individual quotas, ratios,
bandwidth, etc. System accounts can't do this.
.br 
Thousands of virtual users can share the same system user, as long as they
all are chrooted, and they have their own home directory.
.SH "FILES"
.LP 
\fI/etc/pureftpd.passwd\fP
.br
\fI/etc/pureftpd.pdb\fP 
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.LP 
\fIPURE_PASSWDFILE\fP
If this variable is defined, this is the default value for the text password
file. Without this variable, /etc/pureftpd.passwd is assumed.
.br
\fIPURE_DBFILE\fP 
If this variable is defined, this is the default value for the PureDB password
file. Without this variable, /etc/pureftpd.pdb is assumed.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
Please read http://www.pureftpd.org/README.Virtual\-Users
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Frank DENIS <j at pureftpd dot org>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR "ftp(1)" ,
.BR "pure-ftpd(8)"
.BR "pure-ftpwho(8)"
.BR "pure-mrtginfo(8)"
.BR "pure-uploadscript(8)"
.BR "pure-statsdecode(8)"
.BR "pure-pw(8)"
.BR "pure-quotacheck(8)"
.BR "pure-authd(8)"

.BR "RFC 959" ,
.BR "RFC 2228",
.BR "RFC 2389" " and"
.BR "RFC 2428" .
